
# Golang HTTP Web Server

This repository contains a simple HTTP web server written in the Golang language, which listens to incoming HTTP requests on `localhost:9999`. The following functionalities are implemented:

- If a request hits the path `/` (e.g., `http://localhost:9999/` or `http://localhost:9999`), a `404 Not Found` response is returned as the homepage is not implemented in this task.
- If a request hits the path `/health` (e.g., `http://localhost:9999/health`), the server returns the message `ALIVE` if it is up and running.

## Prerequisites

* [Git](http://https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git "Git")
* [Go](http://https://go.dev/dl/ "Go") version 1.18 or later

## Project Setup

With Golang installed in your environment, you can initialize a new project with the following commands:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jgnacio/holbertonschool-validation.git
cd holbertonschool-validation/module2_task0
```

After initializing the project, run the command:
```bash
make build
``` 
to generate the binary and necesary files, then
run the server with:
```bash
make run
```


## Lifecycle

The life-cycle of this project is defined by the following goals:

- `build`: compile the source code of the application to a binary named `awesome-api` with the command `make build`. The first build may take some time.
- `run`: run the application in the background by executing the binary `awesome-api` and write logs into a file named `awesome-api.log` with the command `./awesome-api >./awesome-api.log 2>&1 &`.
- `stop`: stop the application with the command `kill <pid-of-awesome-api>` where `<pid-of-awesome-api>` is the Process ID of the application. For instance, `kill "$(pgrep awesome-api)"`.
- `clean`: stop the application, delete the binary `awesome-api` and the log file `awesome-api.log`.
- `test`: test the application to ensure that it behaves as expected.

Sure! Here's an updated README file for the makefile:


### Makefile commands
* **help**
	```bash
	make help
	```

	Displays a list of targets and their descriptions.

* **build**

	```bash
	make build
	```

	Compiles the source code of the application into a binary named `awesome-api`. If the `go.mod` file is missing, it is generated automatically. 

* **run**

	```bash
	make run
	```

	Runs the `awesome-api` application in the background and writes logs into a file named `awesome-api.log`.

* **stop**

	```bash
	make stop
	```

	Kills the `awesome-api` application process.

* **clean**

	```bash
	make clean
	```

	Stops the `awesome-api` application, removes the binary `awesome-api`, and deletes the log file `awesome-api.log`.

* **test**

	```bash
	make test
	```

	Tests the `awesome-api` application by sending HTTP requests to the server. If the server is running, it should respond with a message indicating that it is alive. If the requested path is `/`, the server should return a `404 Not Found` response, then sending another HTTP request to `/health`, if the server is running should return `ALIVE`.

* **lint**
	To maintain the quality of the codebase, it's good practice to use a linter to check for code style and formatting issues. This project uses the [golangci-lint](https://golangci-lint.run/) linter. To add the linter to the project, follow these steps:

	1. Install golangci-lint by following the instructions in the [official documentation](https://golangci-lint.run/usage/install/#local-installation). 

	2. Once you have installed the linter, add the following command to the Makefile:

	```bash
	make lint
	```
	
	This command will run the golangci-lint linter on all Go files in the project.


## Variables

The following variables are defined in the Makefile:

* EXE_NAME:

	The name of the binary that will be generated by the `build` target. The default value is `awesome-api`.

* SRC:

	The name of the source file to compile. The default value is `main.go`.
* LINT:
	 The name of the linter used, The default value is `golangci-lint`.

* RM:

	The command to remove files and directories. The default value is `rm -r`.